Add documentation for VECTOR SEARCh operators (#1478)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc

======

[[query-plan-node-vector-index-search]]
=== Node Vector Index Search

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
DROP INDEX moviePlots IF EXISTS;
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots IF NOT EXISTS
 FOR (m:Movie) ON m.embedding
 WITH [m.releaseDate, m.rating]
 OPTIONS {
   indexConfig: {
     `vector.similarity_function`: 'cosine',
     `vector.dimensions`: 3,
     `vector.quantization.enabled`: false
   }
 };
----
////

> [role=label--new-2026.01]

Reviewer: should this be 2026.02?

Author: @Lojjs said she used 2026.01 I believe?

Reviewer 2: Yes the feature was in preview in 2026.01 which in this case meant all functionality (and a few bugs...) was there by default only that docs had warnings about not using it in production. So as you can get this operator in 2026.01 I think that is fair as a label even if GA is 2026.02

> The `NodeVectorIndexSearch` operator is used to search a vector index for similar vector embeddings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `NodeVectorIndexSearch` operator searches a vector index for similar vector embeddings.
```

======

[[query-plan-directed-relationship-vector-index-search]]
=== Directed Relationship Index Search

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
DROP INDEX moviePlots IF EXISTS;
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots IF NOT EXISTS
 FOR ()-[m:Movie]-() ON m.embedding
 WITH [m.releaseDate, m.rating]
 OPTIONS {
   indexConfig: {
     `vector.similarity_function`: 'cosine',
     `vector.dimensions`: 3,
     `vector.quantization.enabled`: false
   }
 };
----
////

> [role=label--new-2026.01]

Reviewer: same question here

> The `DirectedRelationshipVectorIndexSearch` operator is used to search a vector index for similar vector embeddings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `DirectedRelationshipVectorIndexSearch` operator searches a vector index for similar vector embeddings.
```

.DirectedRelationshipVectorIndexSearch
======

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
PROFILE

> MATCH ()-[movie:Movie]->()

Reviewer 2: Not super important, but maybe :Movie is not the most pedagogical example of a relationship type, goes for the undirected version as well.

Author: what do we use elsewhere in docs?

Reviewer 2: It actually looks like all my examples in the SEARCH chapter are on node indexes, which is maybe not so pedagogical by me either .... Only the general syntax and introduction text talks about relationship indexes

|                                        |    | oint_1, INTEGER NOT NULL)) LIMIT 4)                                                                  |                |      |         |                |                        |           |                     |               |
+----------------------------------------+----+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+---------------+
Total database accesses: 1, total allocated memory: 312
----

======

[[query-plan-undirected-relationship-vector-index-search]]
=== Undirected Relationship Index Search

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
DROP INDEX moviePlots IF EXISTS;
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots IF NOT EXISTS
 FOR ()-[m:Movie]-() ON m.embedding
 WITH [m.releaseDate, m.rating]
 OPTIONS {
   indexConfig: {
     `vector.similarity_function`: 'cosine',
     `vector.dimensions`: 3,
     `vector.quantization.enabled`: false
   }
 };
----
////

> [role=label--new-2026.01]

Reviewer: and here

> The `UndirectedRelationshipVectorIndexSearch` operator is used to search a vector index for similar vector embeddings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `UndirectedRelationshipVectorIndexSearch` operator searches a vector index for similar vector embeddings.
```

| +DirectedRelationshipVectorIndexSearch |  2 | SEARCH ()-[r:REVIEWED]->() IN (VECTOR INDEX reviews FOR RuntimeConstant(vector($autolist_0, $autoint |              1 |    0 |       1 |            248 |                    0/0 |     0.548 | Fused in Pipeline 0 | reviews: 1   |
|                                        |    | _1, INTEGER NOT NULL)) WHERE rating >= $autoint_2 LIMIT 4)                                           |                |      |         |                |                        |           |                     |              |
+----------------------------------------+----+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+--------------+

Total database accesses: 1, total allocated memory: 312
----

======

[[query-plan-undirected-relationship-vector-index-search]]
=== Undirected Relationship Index Search

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----

> DDROP INDEX reviews IF EXISTS;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
DROP INDEX reviews IF EXISTS;
```
